Markup Shortcuts
================

The processor allows you to omit or shorten several verbose/annoying parts of HTML,
reducing the amount of format noise in the spec source,
making it easier to read and write.

Markdown-style Paragraphs
-------------------------

The processor recognizes Markdown-style paragraphs,
allowing you to omit nearly all `<p>` elements from your source.

Any block of text preceded by a blank line and starting with either naked text or an inline HTML element will be recognized as a paragraph and have the appropriate markup inserted automatically.

Additionally, starting a paragraph with "Note: " will add a `class='note'` to the paragraph,
which triggers special formatting in the CSS stylesheet.


`<pre>` whitespace stripping
----------------------------
Using a `<pre>` element in HTML is unsatisfying, 
because it forces you to break your indentation strategy, 
pulling the content back to the margin edge
(or else employing silly hacks with comments and explicit newlines).
The preprocessor fixes this.

Whenever a `<pre>` element is encountered,
the processor records how much whitespace precedes the first line,
and then strips that much whitespace from it and all following lines.

Additionally, if the closing `</pre>` is on its own line,
the processor automatically pulls it up onto the end of the previous line,
so there's no final blank line in the content.

In other words, you can now write:

~~~~html
<div class='example'>
	<p>
		An example:

	<pre>
		&lt;ul>
			&lt;li>one
			&lt;li>two
		&lt;</ul>
	</pre>
</div>
~~~~

The preprocessor will automatically convert it into:

~~~~html
<div class='example'>
	<p>
		An example:

	<pre>
&lt;ul>
	&lt;li>one
	&lt;li>two
&lt;</ul></pre>
</div>
~~~~


Propdef table expansion
-----------------------

Propdef tables are rather large, even when correctly formatted.
Instead, you can write the table in a simple text format similar to the spec's metadata block,
and let the processor automatically generate a `<table>` from it:

~~~~html
	<pre class='propdef'>
	Name: var-*
	Values: [ <value> | <CDO> | <CDC> ]
	Initial: (nothing, see prose)
	Applies To: all elements
	Inherited: yes
	Computed Value: specified value with variables substituted (but see prose for "invalid variables")
	Media: all
	</pre>
~~~~

The data block is parsed as a series of lines, 
with each line composed of one of the propdef headings, a colon, then the value.

The property name will automatically be wrapped in a `<dfn>` element.
Within the Values line, things that look like grammar nonterminals (anything like `<foo>`) will be automatically escaped and wrapped in `<var>` elements.

This also works for descdef tables, describing the syntax of descriptors.
When writing a descdef table, you should additionally add a "For" line containing the name of the at-rule the descriptor is for.


Automatic ID Generation
-----------------------

If any heading or `<dfn>` element doesn't have an `id=''` attribute,
one will be automatically generated by the processor,
to ensure it's usable as a link target.

Heading IDs are generated directly from the text contents of the element,
cleaning up the characters to be a valid id.
This often isn't the best for complex heading texts,
so it's not recommended to rely on this except for simple headings.

Definition IDs are also generated directly from the text contents of the element.
Most definitions additionally get a prefix, such as "propdef-",
to avoid clashes with other definitions.

If an automatically-generated ID would collide with any other ID,
it's automatically de-duped by appending a number to the end.
This isn't very pretty,
so if you want to avoid it,
supply an ID yourself.